[Music]
after declining postponing and
explaining our situation for two weeks
we finally accepted to join Anthony and
his family for lunch on Wednesday they
served us the traditional meal of Parikh
normally the leek is only served once a
year during times of celebration or
marriage to make the meal they take raw
tortilla batter wrapped in a handful of
corn leaves and steamed them over a hot
fire these are called Toma Alito's next
they boil the rare treat of beef adding
it to a flour mixture and creating a
stew like broth Anthony's wife prepares
ground red peppers and spices which she
adds to the pot seasoning it with a
flavour beyond anything we've consumed
in their diets of rice and beans thus
far after a long simmering they serve up
the meal the Toma Leto's are unwrapped
from their leaves and distributed
amongst everyone we all dip them in the
soup and cherish each bite thanking the
couple for their generosity the fetus
was such a rare feast and by George what
a lunch it was we were stunned by his
generosity left speechless reflecting in
our journals for the rest of the day
selflessness and generosity towards
friends and gangly white people like run
deep here in the culture instead of
isolating ourselves we have decided to
integrate saving and budgeting in order
to give back even more than we have
received while only a gesture of
goodwill in comparison we gave Anthony
our two avocados and shared Wednesday
night's dinner of rice beans and lard
with him sitting cross-legged on our
dirt floor splitting four spoons in a
rotation and over the coming weeks we
will save a little bit each day in order
to prepare a feast for his family of
comparable scale and yumminess the
selfless giving does not only come in an
edible form but as a parent in the
sharing of knowledge and one's time as
well we have learned so much from this
community already and will continue to
mirror them and embrace the
opportunities to give while asking
nothing in return
throughout the preparations for the meal
we were continuously entertained and
distracted by the presence of the
his generation Anthony and Rosa have
three kids two who wandered the kitchen
on their own feet and one who has yet to
speak their playful curiosity in the
four strangers who look and talk
differently leaves the opportunity for
both Rosa and Anthony's mother to tend
to the cooking alongside sits Anthony's
on an older woman who all those unable
to assist provide support in her
presence momentarily I am led to the
other room where I find Anthony's father
sewing a sleeve on a new sweater he
takes a moment to remove his grandson's
shoes and I am left observing reflecting
how these generations have grown and how
their roles are eternally sewn one meal
one house one family
[Music]
just three years ago anthony and roses
family was cooking on an indoor fire
similar to ours with the help of a
microfinance loan they were able to pay
for the stove that they cooked our
incredible meal on this household asset
that cost them five hundred Gonzalez not
only cuts down on the wood they use but
also pipes the smoke from the stove
outdoors
this may seem inconsequential but smoke
from indoor fires is one of the leading
causes of health problems in the third
world their stove not only cuts down on
short-term costs but also provides
long-term health benefits to themselves
their parents and their children this
week we began our initial interviews in
Pena Blanca and Tierra Linda for the
most part we have left our cameras
behind and have begun to build trust and
a level of comfort indispensable to our
research every family have interviewed
has invited us back for a second round
and has welcomed us to bring our cameras
in the future
[Music]